# Heart Attack Possibility Prediction

The number of death due to heart attack is increasing day by day worldwide. This is the one of the major reasons which is affecting individual medical health all over the world. Health care industry is facing huge problems due to this and they are doing research to overcome this situation. Therefore, early diagnosis of disease is very important and intricate job in medicine. But, predicting the person might get heart attack in future is difficult task so, it should be done correctly and efficiently. The identification of heart disease is frequently accompanied by impulsive effects and some assumptions are made. This research study focusses to reduce the efforts and time required by doctor by automating the risk prediction with the help of machine learning and using the classification algorithms. Due to progress made in machine learning, there are various methods that can be successfully adopted to predict the heart disease of an individual. The classification algorithm used to classify a patient is decision tree, random forest, Artificial Neural Network, Support Vector Machine, Boosting Algorithms and many more. All this algorithm is used to develop an application which helps in binary classification. The best algorithm is selected on the basis of comparison and the algorithm which gives good accuracy is used for prediction. Best accuracy was given by support vector machine which was 91% and Artificial Neural Network gave the accuracy of 90.89%. The classification report such as confusion matrix, ROC, AUC curve, precision, recall, F1 score was obtained for each and every implemented algorithm. The algorithm which gave the best accuracy for heart attack possibility prediction is 90.16%.
## Data Collection

Before training a model using particular method, a dataset is downloaded from Kaggle which contain records of 330 patients with 14 different attributes. As it difficult to collect data of each and every patient, the only way possible is to download the data from repository present on google.

## Algorithms Implemented

1. Logistic_Regression
2. Naive Bayes
3. Support Vector Machine (SVM)
4. Decision Tree
5. Random Forest
6. Adaboost
7. Artificial Neural Network
## Discussion and Conclusion

To avoid heart, attack a medical history of patients such as age, sex, cholesterol level, blood      pressure level is taken and the pattern is recognised using machine learning. This technique      would not only help patients but also doctors to cure patient. The different machine learning     algorithms which is taken into consideration are as follows support vector machine, Naive          Bayes, K Nearest Neighbour, decision tree, random forest, logistics regression, adaboost.           From all these the accuracy of adaboost was much higher approximately 90.16%. The                   classification report obtained due to this was much better than other algorithms. There may       me many computers aided techniques which can reduce the cost of clinical test and help to        detect, recover faster. The confusion matrix of Adaboost as seen in image below, the type 1       error and type 2 error were quite less as compared to others. The number of correct prediction such as true positive and false negative was high. After implementation of different algorithms adaboost classified the data more efficiently and precisely. Using this concept different               device can be designed which would be helpful when there is not availability of cardiologist     or expert doctors. In this thesis, 7 different algorithms have been implemented to find the              accuracy and the help of the research paper is taken to implement and improve the accuracy      of algorithm if possible. As the number of patients take into consideration was very less and      the count of features affecting the heart was not sufficient. So, in future large dataset should     be taken with many features. The future plan is to explore more and more dataset by                         contacting the different patient from hospital. The artificial neural network should be also            implemented to improve the accuracy of the data if needed. If the count of people or doctors       using this technology will increase the death rate due to heart related ailments will automatically decrease.